.. . Kicking page rebuild 2014-10-30 17:00:08

.. index:: Bid, Parameter, LotValue, bidder, participant, pretendent

.. _bid:

Bid
===

Schema
------

:tenderers:
    list of :ref:`Organization` objects

:date:
    string, :ref:`date`, autogenerated

:id:
    uid, autogenerated

:status:
    string

    Possible values are:

    * `draft`
    * `pending`
    * `active`
    * `invalid`
    * `invalid.pre-qualification`
    * `deleted`

:value:
    :ref:`Value`, required

:subcontractingDetails:
    string

    While submitting bid proposal, participant can fill in the text field of any length about subcontractor.

:selfEligible:
    true/false, required

    Confirms compliance of eligibility criteria set by the customer in the tendering documents.

:selfQualified:
    true/false, required

    Confirms the absence of grounds for refusal to participate in accordance with Article 17 of the Law of Ukraine "On public procurement".

:parameters:
    list of :ref:`Parameter` objects

:lotValues:
    list of :ref:`LotValue` objects

:participationUrl:
    url

    A web address for participation in auction.

There are several `envelopes` - document containers that manage time when their information will be revealed:

:documents: list of :ref:`ConfidentialDocument` objects. This envelope has to contain only technical part of proposal (`technicalSpecifications` and `qualificationDocuments`). It is revealed at pre-qualification.

:financialDocuments: list of :ref:`ConfidentialDocument` objects. This envelope can contain financial part of proposal (`commercialProposal` and `billOfQuantity`). It is revealed at post-qualification.

:eligibilityDocuments: list of :ref:`ConfidentialDocument` objects. This envelope can contain `eligibilityDocuments` document type. It is revealed at pre-qualification.

:qualificationDocuments: list of :ref:`ConfidentialDocument` objects. This envelope is revealed at post-qualification.


.. _Parameter:

Parameter
=========

Schema
------

:code:
    string, required

    Code of the feature.

:value:
    float, required

    Value of the feature.

.. _LotValue:

LotValue
========

Schema
------

:value:
    :ref:`Value`, required

:relatedLot:
    string

    Id of related :ref:`lot`.

:subcontractingDetails:
    string

    While submitting bid proposal, participant can fill in the text field of any length about subcontractor.

:date:
    string, :ref:`date`, autogenerated

:participationUrl:
    url

    A web address for participation in auction.

Workflow
--------

.. graphviz::

    digraph G {
        A [ label="pending*" ]
        B [ label="active"]
        C [ label="cancelled"]
        D [ label="unsuccessful"]
        E [ label="deleted"]
        F [ label="invalid"]
         A -> B [dir="both"];
         A -> C;
         A -> D [dir="both"];
         A -> E;
         A -> F [dir="both"];
         B -> C;
         D -> C;
         E -> C;
         F -> C;
         F -> E;
    }

\* marks initial state
